All right, moving along,
I want to now just quickly create
our last package middleware.
Middleware, and in here I'm gonna
make a middleware.go, okay?
And this is gonna be a package middleware,
and it's gonna take a few things.
So this package middleware is
gonna be basically responsible for
A, extracting the request headers,
extracting our claims, and
then lastly validating.
Okay?
So I'm gonna go kinda fast,
cuz it's a pretty long and nasty function,
because it's basically going to be
on top of our existing routers, and
we're basically chaining
what function to call next.
So basically our method signature here is
gonna pass in the next function to call on
the method chain, but we have to define
the arguments and the return type.
So that's where it can get kinda messy.
So I'm gonna do func
validate JWT middleware.
I'm gonna do next func, okay?
Next func is gonna basically
take in the request,
which is event.APIGatewayProxyRequest,
okay?
It's then gonna respond with
events.APIGatewayProxyResponse and
an error, Okay?
And the return for
the first function call, okay?
They're still gonna be the exact same.
So we're gonna basically duplicate
this events.APIGatewayProxyRequest.
Go here
the events.APIGatewayProxyResponse and
error, okay?
And I'm gonna open up the function call.
Let me see that put in the error here.
Yeah.
And the first thing that you wanna do is
actually return that first function
in a method change to return func.
It's gonna take in the exact same thing.
So last time, request
events.APIGatewayProxyRequest, okay?
Here events.API,
GatewayProxyReques and error, okay?
Let's go over here.
Cool.
And now we can start working on
this middleware validation logic.
So the first thing we wanna
do is extract the token.
We can do this in line, but I'm gonna
make a quick little helper function,
it's gonna parse request headers,
and it's gonna split the string.
That's all it's going to do.
So I'm gonna do extract the headers, and
then let's make another function
func extractTokenFromHeaders.
And this is gonna be,
I'm gonna say headers,
it's gonna be a map string to string, and
this is going to return a string as well.
And all it's going to do is
gonna take our headers and
see, does it have an authorization header.
And we'll know it will because
our proxy is set up that way,
but just to be extra safe,
we'll do authheader, okay?
It's going to be the headers,
and we're gonna see,
does it have authorization, okay?
And if not okay, meaning if this
does not exist on this map,
we're gonna return empty string.
Okay?
Otherwise we know we're accepting and
getting this header.
So now we can do split token,
let's see split token is going
to be strings.split, and
we're gonna be splitting our
authheader on there, okay?
So if you're gonna send
a authorization token, or a JWT,
the typical process you have an
authheader, that's called authorization,
and the values to be bearer space and
the actual token.
So this split is going to allow us
to extract the actual token string,
the hash token representation
of our JSON Web Token, okay?
Again, I'm gonna say if the length of
split token does not equal to two,
it should just be the bearer and
the token.
We're gonna return an empty string,
and in here we're gonna return
split token at the first index.
Okay?
So then here we can do is actually
call this extract token function.
So we can call it tokenString.
It's gonna be extract token from headers,
and
the value we put here is
gonna request.headers.
All right?
And we don't have an explicit error, but
what we can do is if token
string equals an empty string.
What we're gonna return is return
events.APIGatewayProxyResponse, our body
is gonna say missing authtoken cuz that's
what we've basically short circuiting.
If we see a non authorized header,
we're just gonna return an empty string.
So we're gonna say missing our authtoken.
I'm gonna do a status code,
HTTP unauthorized, okay?
And then for the error,
we could just return no.
So here we've extracted the token,
next, we need to actually parse it.
We need to parse our token for its claims.
And there's a lot of
ways to go about this.
The article that we will attach as
a resource kind of goes into a very simple
approach, but you can basically
validate on, is the algorithm correct?
Doesn't have the expected payload?
There's a bunch of different things that
you can validate your your token on.
I'm gonna keep it fairly simple.
So we're gonna create a function called
func parse token is going to take
in a token string of type string,
and it's going to return two things.
One, the JWT .MAP claim.
So this is the same JWT package
we use to create our token.
Remember when we also hashed our
passwords, we had the same logic to hash
the passwords and
the same package to unhash it.
Same concept here, right?
And it's gonna return an error.
And the error here is for the purpose on,
if our token is not properly claimed,
if it doesn't come from us,
if it has a different algorithm,
then we want to return an error and
handle that error upstream saying, hey,
you're unauthorized to be calling this or
calling this protected route.
So that's the point of the error here.
Question.
Cool.
Okay, so next up, we're actually
gonna start using our token.
Actually, we're gonna create
a callback function to the built
in JWT parse function that this
library has a jwt.Parse, okay?
I mean,
we're gonna do our token string, okay?
I'm gonna do a callback, and
it's gonna take token which
is type JWT.token, all right?
It's gonna return a naked interface.
So could be whatever.
And the reason why this is the way it,
is because when you make your claims and
you create that payload again,
this has no idea what that payload is.
It could be 19 things,
it could be like two things.
So this naked interface allows us to
return almost this any type, if you will,
all right?
And so what this callback function is
going to do, is we're gonna call the parse
function, but
also remember that secret that we created.
So this secret we're
gonna append right here.
It's gonna be secret.
I'm gonna actually double check
that in my types that go it's just
secret get good, cuz it has too match.
If it doesn't,
you're gonna be in trouble or
actually return this place
of bite from the secret.
So what this jwt.Parse function is going
to do is we're setting this callback
function to jwt.Parse.
And we're saying, hey, it does
a bunch of things under the hood, but
one of the things it does and one of
the things we kind of just craft in these
two lines is we're sending back the Byte
representation of our secret and
JWT parts is then going to investigate and
say, hey, yes,
this is like the right signing method for
the token that I'm receiving.
Cool.
Anyone have any questions?
All right.
Yeah, next up,
we have to do our lovely error handling.
If our error does not equal to nil,
we can return token as is,
or we can return h, the empty string or
we can even return nil.
We can do a format error f, and
we can say just unauthorized.
I am probably gonna have a typo and
unauthorized in one of these.
So, if you see it,
it's all right just ignore it.
It's not there.
Then we can say if our token is not valid,
this innate property that the JWT
package gives us, in that callback
function right above relative line 10.
It will append the property of being
valid or not into the token struck, okay?
Or into the token returned from JWT parse.
So we're saying if it's not valid,
what I'm gonna do is return nil?
I'm gonna do format error f
token is not valid, right?
Token is not valid,
unauthorized, okay?
We can do one more.
So the whole purpose of this function
is to return our claims, and
we have yet to really touch on those
claims at all, but they do exist and
they exist in the to claims field.
So what we can do is claims, okay,
I'm gonna check if they're even
there by doing Token.claims.
There's that property, and
I want to make sure that these
claims are of type JWT map claims.
So when we created back in types.go,
we created our claims with this struct
definition here, with this struct type.
And so we wanna make sure because
this evil doers are crafty,
that the claims that's actually in this
token match the JWT claims type, okay?
I'm gonna say if not OK,
we're gonna type in,
we can just return nil and
say fmt.error f claims of on.
Something like that.
Otherwise, let's just
return our claims and nil.
Okay?
So these are two functions that we
really need in our definition here.
Cuz now we're just gonna roll the punches.
We basically have everything we need.
Because we have the token string from
the previous function we just defined,
we're not gonna put that
in to our parse function.
We're gonna get our claims,
we're gonna validate the claims on
the expires field and if everything
passes, then we know we can show this
route to the user calling it or
to the client calling it.
Let's go with it.
Claims error is going
to be a part of token.
We're gonna pass in our token string
if error does not equal to nil,
return events are API proxy response.
The body is gonna be pretty simple, pretty
straight forward, you're unauthorized.
So user unauthorized, okay?
And a status code is gonna be,
HTTP unauthorized, okay?
And we can return our error,
we can surface our error up, I should say.
But if we have our claims, this is where
we can actually extract one particular
field that we're really interested in
our case, which is the expires field.
So we can do expires is claims expires,
right?
But what we wanna do is when we
put in expires over in types.go,
we put it as a Unix timestamp, right?
We've converted it as Valid, so time.now
we've added one hour of convert to Unix.
So what we need to do is here, I wanna
make sure that's the right type and
then convert it, because we're
gonna compare it to the time.now.
So basically, I'm gonna leave this
error here, but what I wanna do is,
if expires,
is greater than time dot now, right?
Then what I wanna do is
say this is invalid,
this is just the kinda pseudocode but
here what we're gonna
do is expires is claims I'm gonna
do map that to float 64 and
then around here I'm gonna
make this into int 64,
cuz that's the proper time to compare
from the native time.now function.
Okay, we got an error.
What's going on?
Let's see.
Where'd he go?
Okay, weird.
Okay, now we're seeing if time.now.unix,
okay?
Is greater than expires, okay?
Meaning this token has expired.
It's no longer good to return our events,
API Gateway Proxy Response,
the body is gonna be token expired.
Status code.
There's probably one for expired tokens,
I'm gonna keep it as unauthorized and
then we're gonna return nil, cuz it's
kind of a controlled response, okay?
Otherwise return next, Request.